hey everyone today I'm going to show you
how to put together a glass tapestry
frame it's quite simple just takes a
couple of minutes to do what you want to
do is have two pieces of glass identical
shapes and this one that I have here is
about six inches by eight inches so what
we're going to first do is just have put
down one plate of glass now here I have
some basswood the size on this is
approximately 3/16 by a quarter-inch and
what I'm going to do here is just
measure to the very end put a little
mark there then just snap it then with
some white glue I'm just going to trim
the edges here put a nice little quick
seam this is just plain Elmer's white
glue okay let's set that down and what
we're going to do here is just take the
thin side or the thin edge and press it
down like so then we're going to measure
the other edges here and when this dries
it'll dry completely clear just marking
the edges here
okay so we get now this frame can be
created in any size of your choice let's
again this one's about six inches by
eight inches you can go through whoa one
by two feet if you choose just depend
upon the size of your kiln so we
actually have the bottom of this piece
created but this will actually be is
considered the top this piece will never
be fused okay now I'm just going to set
this off to dry now here I have another
frame this one is about six inches by
six inches and it's just completely dry
now again the front of the frame this is
considered the front again will never be
fused this I like to use just plate I'll
just plain plate glass or window pane
glass it's inexpensive and it's very
clear and smooth now the backside this
is our fusing piece so this one we can
go in any CoA of your choice either
ninety or ninety six and this is placed
right to the back again the sizes are
just identical so when you when they're
pressed together they match up right
along the edges so I'm just going to
temporarily set that down there pull a
piece of tape here and I'm just going to
create a tab about a half an inch press
that down just kind of squeeze it and
just wrap it around now the reason that
I have the tabs is so it'll be easy to
actually later on just pull rather than
fumble around with it trying to find
that the edge fit in another tab
you say I just put for frame this size
I'll put one on each side and one on the
bottom there we go now we've got the
frame now this is what all the prytt is
poured in between you can go thinner if
you like or you can go wider if you like
but this is a good size to start off
with this is about a quarter of an inch
again the fusing glass is toward the
back okay and that's all the risks of
putting a frame together now this is
just a simple base what I've done here
is just taking a flat piece of wood this
is actually just scrap molding probably
cost me about $0.50 and these are about
a half inch by half inch square password
that I've cut off and what I want to do
is all this is is just a base that once
so that you can keep your frame flat and
solid so that when you put it in there
that drops right in there and you can
watch something in the back to keep it
from wobbly wobbly and you don't want to
do this but you want it nice and sturdy
now I'm going to actually show you how
we release the picture or release the
frame now here we have the front or the
topside and I've got a nice sturdy base
here this is just a jar of frit so now
we just going to hold it in place we're
going to grab the Pat the tabs from the
bottom and just pull them straight up
make sure you can get to them hold it
solidly in place now we're just going to
pull the frame up to straight up and
we're going to let the frit just fall
over to the edges as you see there it
actually holds in place then I'm just
going to walk this over to the kiln and
fire it it's as simple as that